.TH MOLDY 1 "2026-06-30" "moldy 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
moldy \- multi-language code formatter built on tree-sitter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B moldy
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR [\fIFILE\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B moldy
reads one or more source files, applies whitespace and brace formatting
rules, and writes the result to standard output (default), edits the files
in place
.RB ( \-i ),
or checks whether any file would change
.RB ( \-\-check ).
.PP
moldy uses tree-sitter to parse source files and is the spiritual successor
to
.BR funky (1).
It supports C and C++ with the same formatting rules as funky, and is
designed to expand to additional languages over time.
.PP
The formatter is Unicode-safe: identifiers, string literals, and comments
containing multi-byte UTF-8 sequences (CJK characters, accented letters,
etc.) are preserved verbatim.
.PP
Formatting rules are controlled by a
.I moldy.toml
file in the current directory, or by the file given with
.BR \-c .
All configuration keys are optional; built-in defaults are used for any
keys that are absent.
.PP
Pass
.B \-
as a file argument to read from standard input and write to standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-in\-place
Edit each file in place instead of writing to standard output.
Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-check .
.TP
.B \-\-check
Check mode: exit with status 1 if any file would be changed by formatting;
do not write any output.  The name of each file that would change is
printed to standard error.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-recursive
Recurse into directories, formatting all source files with recognised
extensions.
.TP
.BI \-c " FILE" "\fR,\fP " \-\-config " FILE"
Load configuration from
.I FILE
instead of
.I moldy.toml
in the current directory.
.TP
.B \-\-dump\-tree
Print the tree-sitter CST for each input file to standard output and exit.
Useful for debugging formatter behaviour.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a short usage summary and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print the version string and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I moldy.toml
Per-project configuration file, searched in the current working directory.
See
.B CONFIGURATION
below.
.SH CONFIGURATION
All keys are optional.  A
.I funky.toml
file is also accepted (the two formats are identical for C/C++ formatting).
.PP
.nf
[indent]
style               = "spaces"  # "spaces" | "tabs"
width               = 4
indent_switch_case  = true
indent_goto_labels  = false

[braces]
style               = "kr"      # "kr" | "allman" | "stroustrup"
cuddle_else         = false
cuddle_catch        = false
collapse_empty_body = true
fn_brace_newline    = true
extern_c_brace      = "force_same_line"
nl_brace_else       = true
add_braces_to_if    = true
add_braces_to_while = true
add_braces_to_for   = true

[spacing]
space_before_call_paren     = false
space_before_keyword_paren  = true
space_after_comma           = true
space_around_binary_ops     = true
pointer_align               = "name"
align_right_cmt_span        = 3
align_right_cmt_gap         = 1
align_right_cmt_style       = "groups"
align_enum_equ_span         = 1
align_doxygen_cmt_span      = 1
align_on_tabstop            = true

[ignore]
patterns = ["vendor/**", "third_party/**", "*.pb.h"]
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success (or, in
.B \-\-check
mode, no file would change).
.TP
.B 1
In
.B \-\-check
mode: one or more files would change.  Otherwise: a fatal error occurred.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR funky (1),
.BR clang\-format (1),
.BR uncrustify (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Brandon Arrendondo <brandon.arrendondo@bissell.com>
